So this lecture is going to
talk about creating
reproducible presentations
using R Markdown.
In previous versions of
this class we covered
a couple of the many different
ways that you could do this.
R Studio has this thing
called R Studio Presenter,
there's this thing called Slidify.
And in this latest
incarnation of the class,
we're just focusing on straight Markdown.
Now, R Markdown is already
covered in the data science specialization
in the class on reproducible research.
However, we're going to kind of
focus here just on creating
reproducible presentations.
But we're going to recover some of
the content that justifies why you might
want to do reproducible presentations,
or do reproducible documents in general.
So just a little bit about R Markdown,
is R Markdown is built into R Studio.
And basically it allows
you to create documents,
particularly HTML documents from within R.
But in such a way that it embeds
the code and the results of the code and
the plots and everything else that you're
doing from your analysis Into the document
in one big reproducible mish mash.
And that's incredibly useful,
because the changes this old workflow
of having some analytic R code that is
maybe documented, but probably not.
And then a separate document, say a Google
document or a Word document, or whatever,
a LaTeX document or whatever.
And the way you're combining them
is by copying and pasting or
saving files manually and
inputting them into the documents.
Same thing with presentation, you might
have a PowerPoint presentation and
you're running your code over here and
then pasting or
copying those things
into the presentation.
And that leads to issues with version
control, it also leads to the problem that
the person you're giving the presentation
to if you're handing them the file
can't necessarily reproduce all
the figures and graphs in it.
So, again, this is just in general
a better way to do things if
you're concerned with having
things like reproducibility and
having a nice consistent structure for
generating your presentations.
I can imagine an instance
in say a corporate setting
where a particular report
has to be given routinely.
Say every couple of weeks or
something like that, from data,
important data that's being generated for
the company.
And instead of redoing that presentation
and having the error prone process of
copying and pasting each time, the idea
of having a script that would generate
the presentation with the latest numbers
in a way that everything was traceable and
version controlled would be
an incredibly useful thing.
So one way to think about R Markdown in
creating presentations like this is as
a useful way for creating recurring
presentations or automated presentations.
But, it has a lot of uses and I want to
emphasis this idea of reproducibility.
So this has received a lot attention here,
we talk about it a little
bit in the slides.
This has received a lot of attention
in the academic community now,
because mostly, with regard to papers,
people have put out papers and
then independent groups have just tried
to reproduce the results of the papers.
Not redo the experiments,
just take the same data sets and
try to reproduce the analysis and it turns
out that it's often not possible and
it creates disputes over who's right
the first people or the second people and
now a third group did it and
they can't reproduce it, but
they get something different
than both the other two people.
So having a document that has the code
embedded in it really improves the status
of reproducibility of the document.
It's not perfect, because there's
probably some external files or
datasets that you have to call,
some libraries.
There's probably differences
between computing architectures and
other things that may impact your results.
But by and large this goes leaps and
bounds towards creating more
reproducible results in your documents.
Okay, so hopefully you've heard a lot of
this before when you were talking about
reproducability as it pertained
to Nitter and things like that,
in your reproducible research class that's
part of the data science specialization.
But if you're taking this class in Ovo,
then we're just going to walk you through
a couple of example,
focusing mainly on presentations.
An in this class,
we focus on presentations just because
we like to think of this
class as a products class, so
the idea is that you're
generating product.
And that your presentation will
be your pitch for the product.
And we want your pitch to be created
in one of these reproducible formats.
Okay, so next we're just going to
start going through some examples.